# Ready-To-Rag
*To rag or not to rag*

## What is RAG?
RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) is a technique that combines retrieval-based methods with generative models to produce more accurate and contextually relevant responses. It retrieves relevant documents from a large corpus and uses them to generate answers. In this example we used a basic RAG using LlamaIndex and Hugging Face models.


## How to Run the Script
1. Clone the repository:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/giobbu/ready-to-rag.git
    cd ready-to-rag
    ```

2. Install the required dependencies:
    ```sh
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Run the script:
    ```sh
    python main.py --query "{query}"
    ```

## Example

### NOT SO BAD ANSWER
QUERY:
>>> "What is the scientific paper in /data talking about?"

RESPONSE:
>>> The scientific paper in /data talking about is "Explainable Artificial Intelligence: Asurvey" by Filip K. Došilović, MarioBrčić, and N.Dunstan. It explores the use of explainable artificial intelligence (XAI) for anomaly detection, diagnostic, and diagnosis, with aids in interpretability. It also covers: Anomalydetection anddiagnosisfromsystemsensor andNikolaCropped.

### BAD ANSWER
QUERY:
>>> Should I used this RAG to explain the scientific paper in /data?

RESPONSE:
 >>> Yes, you should use this RAG to explain the scientific paper in /data. The RAG is an effective tool for explainable anomaly detection, and it can be used to provide quantitative and interpretative explanations of anomalies in the data. The RAG provides a comprehensive approach to anomaly detection, enabling it to handle both pattern-based and feature-based anomalies. Additionally, the RAG is applicable to various AD methods, which makes it a valuable tool for evaluating the quality of explanations generated by these methods. The paper you are referring to, "Survey on Explainable Anomaly Detection," provides a detailed overview of the RAG and its applications in different domains. Therefore, I recommend reading.
